this little movie shows how to make a
template for a trial mudguard our first
step is to make a model of the mudguard
we only need to make a model of one
section of the mudguard
to do this find someone mill sheet metal
and cut out a size approximately 200 by
300 millimeters then mark out your
longitudinal folds as per the dimensions
on the drawing then approximately in the
middle of the shape draw a center line
now we are going to mark out at the back
edge which has the 90 degree angle we
mark out the anchor with an angle gauge
but what is the angle that we actually
scribe or back the line at this is an
easy one to do because according to the
drawing the angle or the fold is at 45
degrees so our cutout has to be 45
degrees that is 22 and 1/2 degrees each
side of the center line the next cut out
is much more difficult because we have
what we call a compound angle we have a
45 degree fold in one direction and a 45
degree fold in the other direction
coming from the same point this gives us
what we call a compound angle it is not
simple as the previous one and so we
have to work out what they cut out will
be we could work out what this angle
would be mathematically but it is a
complex formula and it is not used in a
general work situation what we would do
in a general workshop situation is to
use trial and error
and that means we make a cut out first
and then try it see if it fits if it
doesn't we then alter it so with this
cut out we will start at an angle of 15
degrees either side of the center line
from the apex we will also draw a line
90 degrees from the edge for the small
fold-over which is that the 20
millimeter folder once we have completed
our mark out we simply cut along the
lines with pure tin snips to remove the
piece of metal ready for folding cut out
both sides following your mark out we
are now ready to start folding the first
vault that we complete is on the 20
millimeter session
this vault is folded over at an angle as
far as you put can possibly go with the
folder the next fold is on the 50 film
millimeter length which is folded at an
angle of 45 degrees
the next fold is to fault the 90-degree
angle on the 40 millimeter length which
is the back of the mudguard
we now need to start folding up the monk
guard in the other direction the aim of
this fold is to make it 45 degrees
however in the first instance it will
not fold up to an angle of 45 degrees we
fold up the component and to the edges
start touching these edges these
touching edges will prevent the fall
from going a full 45 degrees the next
step is to then cut away the touching
edges so that we can fold the component
up further and eventually get to our 45
degrees we cut out the touching services
any way that we can we can cut it out
with that angle grinder tin snips or
whatever
continue to fold up the component again
until the edges touch the folders
completed when both the front and the
back edges touch this should then be 45
degrees however you need to check it
with an angle gauge to make sure that
you do have the right angle both edges
should touch leaving only a small gap
which is then later on welded into
position you must make sure that and
check that the angle is 45 degrees this
then completes one section of our guard
it is a model a template of one fold of
our mudguard that we are manufacturing
our next step is to then unfold all of
the folds that we have completed once we
unfold everything flatten it out we will
then have produced a template which we
can use for our manufacture of our
mudguard unfold first with a pair of
pliers then use the clamp on the folder
to flatten out the model as much as you
possibly can
we then have a finished template when
making a my god we must first mark out
according to the drawing the
intersecting points were all the joins
are to take place we then use that
template of each of those intersecting
points and mark out the cut out which
will be the same on each point this
saves a lot of time a lot of work a lot
of effort in marking out each individual
cut out the process you have just seen
is what would happen in a workshop by
taking time to make a model and then
producing a template will save you a lot
of time in the manufacture of subsequent
mudguards